# Exploring-Survival-on-the-Titanic
A predictive model that determines if a given person would survive the shipwreck based on passenger data. The training-set of the dataset "Titanic - Machine Learning from disaster" has 891 examples and 11 features + the target variable (survived). 2 of the features are floats, 5 are integers and 5 are objects. To name a few, the features include name, age, fare, gender and ticket number. The model is trained to use these features to predict the chances of survivability of the passenger. 
The entries of the training set are statistically summarized to perform exploratory data analysis on the input data. ​It is a critical process of performing initial investigations on data​ to discover patterns​, spot anomalies​, test hypothesis ​and check assumptions with the help of summary statistics and graphical representations.​ Next, the dataset is scanned for missing values and such entries are dropped.
The dataset is preprocessed and transformed from a raw state to a useful and efficient format. Since the machine learning model accepts only numerical data as input, all categorical values are converted to numeric(integer) values. 
The project uses Random Forest, a supervised learning algorithm as the main training model. It is used widely in Classification and Regression problems. ​It builds decision trees on different samples and takes their majority vote for classification and average in case of regression.​
Finally the model is tested to predict the "survived" attribute of the passenger entries using the patterns detected in the input passenger details of the training dataset. This determines whether a passenger would have most likely survived the shipwreck of Titanic. The accuracy of the predictive model built using Random Forest Algorithm was found to be 93.69%. After tuning the parameters with K-Fold Cross Validation the score of the predictive model was 80%.
